{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf720
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14480\viewh15460\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Myles Cutchember		March 3, 2015 		SDI-00		Problem Solving \
\

\b\fs36 \ul A Cat, A Parrot, and a Bag of Seed:
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\

\b Define the problem:
\b0 \
\
A man needs to transport a cat, bird, and bag of seed to the other side of a river bank. He does not have room to fit all, so he has to figure out a way to get all passengers across without any issues.\
\
The man has to carefully choose who to take across the bank because either the bird could eat the seeds or the cat could eat the bird.\
\
The overall goal is to get all passengers across the river bank without anyone getting hurt or eaten. \
\

\b Break the problem apart:
\b0 \
\
The constraints are not being able to carefully transport all passengers at once because of limited space and not being able to leave passengers alone because one passenger may eat the other. \
\
The man has to take each passenger one by one across the bank. The sub-goals are to figure out which order to transport the passengers while keeping the other passengers safe, make sure the man has a good sense of direction, and to be sure nothing happens during the transportation. \
\

\b Identify potential solutions:\
\

\b0 A possible solution is for the man to take the bird directly across the bank leaving the cat and bag of seed. Next, the man returns for the cat to transport directly across the bank. Finally, the man returns for the bad of seed to transport directly across the bank.  \
\

\b Evaluate each potential solution:\
\

\b0 Yes, each solution successfully transport all passengers to the other side of the bank.\
\
Yes, each solution will successfully work for all cases. \
\

\b Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it. \
\

\b0 The solution of the problem is to first transport the bird to the other side of the bank so that the cat will not eat the bird and the bird will not eat the bag of seed. Next, the man shall come back to transport the cat across the bank. Finally, the man returns to transport the bag of seed across the bank. \
\
I test having the man transporting the bag of seeds first, which will allow the cat to eat the bird. That failed. I also test the man transporting the cat first, which will allow the bird to eat the bag of seed. That also failed.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Socks in the Dark:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Define the problem:
\b0 \
\
The problem is being able to select the smallest number of socks in the dark to guarantee getting at least one matching pair and one matching pair of each color. \
\
I can not guarantee that the sock will match the first time I grab them out of the drawer.\
\
The overall goal is to be able to grab a number of amount of socks to guarantee that I will have at least a matching pair and at least one matching pair of each color \
\

\b Break the problem apart:\
\

\b0 The constraint is not being able to see what socks you are choosing.\
\
The sub-goal is to choose an amount of socks that will guarantee having a pair and a pair of each color. \
\

\b Identify potential solutions:\
\

\b0 The possible solution is to choose 2 socks in order to get a pair and choose 6 socks in order to pair each color. \
\

\b Evaluate each potential solution:\
\

\b0 Yes, each solution met it\'92s goal because it is possible to get 1 pair of socks with 2 socks and 6 socks to get each color paired. \
\
Yes, this solution will work for all cases. \
\

\b Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it.\
\

\b0 The solution is to choose at least 2 pair of socks to guarantee a matching pair, and choose at least 6 socks to guarantee a pair of each color.\
\
You can turn on the light to find out exactly which sock to choose. You can also take all socks out at one time in order to choose a pair and a pair of each color after the selection has been made. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Predicting Fingers:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
Define the problem:
\b0 \
\
The problem is to find out which finger the little girl will land on while counting 1 to 10, 1 to 100, and 1 to 1000.\
\
The little girl is not using all of her fingers consecutively while counting.\
\
The overall goal is to figure out which finger she will land on. \
\

\b Break the problem apart:\
\

\b0 Knowing exactly which finger she will land on. The little girl only uses the little finger once. \
\

\b Identify potential solutions:\
\

\b0  The possible solution is to double and triple one finger up when counting from 1-10, 1-100, and 1-1000. Therefore, the little girl will land on the first finger when counting up 10, land on the thumb when counting up to 100, and middle finger when counting to 1000. \
\

\b Evaluate each potential solution:\
\

\b0 I honestly do not know if this solution met all goals, it is a hypothesis. \
\
I honestly do not know if this solution will work for all cases. \
\

\b Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it.\
\

\b0 The little girl will stop on the first finger when counting up to 10. Because the the number doubles and triples, my guess is that the finger the little girl will land on doubles and triples as well. \
\
1-10 : first finger\
\
1- 100 : ring finger\
\
1- 1000: little finger\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\
}